--- 
title: Clojure for the Brave and True
link_title: Introduction
kind: documentation
---

# Introduction

\**Clojure!*\*

For weeks, months &mdash; no, from the very moment you were born
&mdash; you've felt it calling to you. Every time you've held your
keyboard aloft, crying out in anguish over an incomprehensible class
hierarchy; every time you've lain awake at night, disturbing your
loved ones with sobs over a mutation-induced heisenbug; every time a
race condition has caused you to pull out more of your ever-dwindling
hair, some secret part of you has known that *there has to be a better
way*.

Now, at long last, the web-based instructional material you have in
front of your face will unite you with the programming language you've
been longing for.

## Part 1: Environment Set Up

In order to stay motivated and learn efficiently, you need to be able
to actually build stuff. No running code in a browser for you!

### [How to set up your computer for optimal learning.](/getting-started/)

In order to learn Clojure it makes sense to invest a small amount of
time up front to get familiar with a quick, problem-free way to build
and run Clojure programs. We'll also go over how to experiment with
code within a running Clojure process using a REPL. The goal is to
have a quick feedback loop where you can try some code, see what it
does, and learn from the result.

[Read "Building, Running, and The Repl"](/getting-started/)

### [Using Emacs for Clojure development.](/basic-emacs/)

Having a quick feedback loop for learning is so important that we
cover Emacs from the ground up so that you'll have an efficient
Emacs/Clojure workflow. Pointers to resources for other editors are
also included.

[Read "Start Using Emacs"](/basic-emacs/)

## [Part 2: Language Fundamentals](/language-fundamentals-overview/)

The goal of this section is to provide you with a solid foundation on
which to continue learning Clojure. You'll start by learning how to
actually do things, and then take a step back to understand the
underlying concepts.

[Read "Clojure Language Fundamentals Overview"](/language-fundamentals-overview/)

### [Do Things](/do-things/)

While you've undoubtedly heard of Clojure's awesome concurrency
support and other stupendous features, Clojure's most salient
characteristic is that it is a Lisp. We're going to explore this Lisp
core. And this core is comprised of two parts: functions and data.

[Read "Do Things"](/do-things/)

### Clojure Alchemy: Reading, Evaluation, and Macros

In this chapter, we'll take a step back and describe the way that
Clojure works. This will give you the conceptual structure needed to
truly understand how Clojure works and how it's different from other,
non-lisp languages. With this structure in place, we'll introduce
the macro, one of the most powerful tools in existence.

[Read "Clojure Alchemy: Reading, Evaluation, and Macros"](/read-and-eval/)
